pages/about.md, before:

<script>{
	"title": "About QUnit",
	"pageTemplate": "page-contentfull.php"
}</script>

QUnit is a powerful, easy-to-use JavaScript unit testing framework. It's used by jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile and many other projects and is capable of testing any generic JavaScript code, including itself!

## Vision and Goals

### Simple setup

Setting up the first unit test with QUnit should be super simple, requiring as little setup as possible.

### Immediate, detailed feedback

When a test or assertion fails, QUnit should provide feedback to the developer as fast as possible, with enough detail to quickly figure out the underlying issue. And doing so without interrupting the test, as the other assertions still run.

### Also...

* Performance: QUnit is not only easy, but fast.
* Opinionated and lean API, but extensible.
* Compatible: It works on many different environments.

## QUnit Team

There's a lot of work that goes into making QUnit. Between API design, implementation, ticket triage, bug fixing, developer relations, infrastructure, and everything else, most of the work is done by volunteers. We'd like to recognize the most prominent contributors below, for a full list of all contributors, see the [authors list](https://github.com/jquery/qunit/blob/master/AUTHORS.txt).

### [Leo Balter](https://twitter.com/leobalter) — Project Lead

Leo is a software engineer at Bocoup. Born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, he's now based in Boston, MA, USA. Leo actively contributes to QUnit since 2013. He also wrote some of [the official JavaScript tests](http://github.com/tc39/test262/) for ES2015, also known as ES6.

### [Jörn Zaefferer](http://bassistance.de/)

Jörn is a freelance web developer, consultant and trainer, residing in Cologne, Germany. Jörn evolved jQuery’s testsuite into QUnit and was project lead until mid-2015. He created and maintains a number of popular plugins. As a jQuery UI development lead, he focuses on the development of new plugins, widgets and utilities.

## Contributors (Past &amp; Present)

### [James M. Greene](http://greene.io/)
### [John Resig](http://ejohn.org/)
### [Richard Gibson](https://twitter.com/gibson042)
### [Scott González](http://nemikor.com/)
### [Timo Tijhof](https://timotijhof.net/)

Commit message:

About: Add @gibson042 to the team
Fixes gh-107
Closes gh-108

pages/about.md, after:

<script>{
	"title": "About QUnit",
	"pageTemplate": "page-contentfull.php"
}</script>

QUnit is a powerful, easy-to-use JavaScript unit testing framework. It's used by jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile and many other projects and is capable of testing any generic JavaScript code, including itself!

## Vision and Goals

### Simple setup

Setting up the first unit test with QUnit should be super simple, requiring as little setup as possible.

### Immediate, detailed feedback

When a test or assertion fails, QUnit should provide feedback to the developer as fast as possible, with enough detail to quickly figure out the underlying issue. And doing so without interrupting the test, as the other assertions still run.

### Also...

* Performance: QUnit is not only easy, but fast.
* Opinionated and lean API, but extensible.
* Compatible: It works on many different environments.

## QUnit Team

There's a lot of work that goes into making QUnit. Between API design, implementation, ticket triage, bug fixing, developer relations, infrastructure, and everything else, most of the work is done by volunteers. We'd like to recognize the most prominent contributors below, for a full list of all contributors, see the [authors list](https://github.com/jquery/qunit/blob/master/AUTHORS.txt).

### [Leo Balter](https://twitter.com/leobalter) — Project Lead

Leo is a software engineer at Bocoup. Born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, he's now based in Boston, MA, USA. Leo actively contributes to QUnit since 2013. He also wrote some of [the official JavaScript tests](http://github.com/tc39/test262/) for ES2015, also known as ES6.

### [Richard Gibson](https://twitter.com/gibson042)

Richard is an architect at [Dyn](http://dyn.com/) in New Hampshire, USA. He has been contributing to jQuery Foundation projects since 2011 (QUnit since 2012), and can be spotted on a large handful of open source repositories.

### [Jörn Zaefferer](http://bassistance.de/)

Jörn is a freelance web developer, consultant and trainer, residing in Cologne, Germany. Jörn evolved jQuery’s testsuite into QUnit and was project lead until mid-2015. He created and maintains a number of popular plugins. As a jQuery UI development lead, he focuses on the development of new plugins, widgets and utilities.

## Contributors (Past &amp; Present)

### [James M. Greene](http://greene.io/)
### [John Resig](http://ejohn.org/)
### [Richard Gibson](https://twitter.com/gibson042)
### [Scott González](http://nemikor.com/)
### [Timo Tijhof](https://timotijhof.net/)
